25th, 1975, with interviewer Mike Stevens, at
home Mrs. C.O. Powell on 409 Barton Street in
Hearn. Is that on there? Yeah, I want that on there
for a reason, just for my own reference. Now do I
start? Yeah. Why don't you start out, like I said,
tell us something about your family or whatever.
My grandparents came from Frankfurt, Germany in
1860. why they chose to come to the United States.
Times was getting hard there. And they came to, let
me see, I think they came to New Orleans. I think
that, I've heard my mother say that. And she was
born 1863. And then
she and my daddy married And I was born in
Rutherford County, Tennessee in 18 and 92. How
many was in your family? How many brother and
sister do you have? With me? Yeah. I had one sister
and two brothers. And my mother died in 19 and 10.
And I was in college in Murfreesboro, Tennessee at
Teachers College. when my mother died. And then I
went to college, and then in 19, I went two years. In
19 and 13,
my husband and I married. And we had eight
children, and we educated all of them.
And then we came in 19,
In 29, Daddy got transferred from the Southern
Pacific Railroad, I mean, no, no, from the L&N
Railroad to the Southern Pacific Hill. And he
worked for the Southern Pacific until he died in
1970. And during the War II, I had two boys in the
service. One of them, he worked for the railroad,
was Navy CB. And the other one had just finished
high school. And we had to sign for him. My daddy
did. I wouldn't sign for him. And he joined up with
that bunch from Harris County and Waller County to
take revenge on Pearl Harbor. Go ahead. Go ahead.
I'm just checking this thing. OK, it's doing fine.
And they sunk that ship at Pearl Harbor and there
was a thousand left Houston. And so you've been,
how long have you been here in Hearn now? And I have
been in Hearn off and on ever since 34. Why I say off
and on, if the company, if the railroad wanted to
send my husband anywhere, Well, we'd just pack up
and go wherever they'd send him, and then when he
got through that job, we'd come back to Hearn, and
he'd go back to the job here. Who were some of the
places you went off and on? Oh, my goodness. I've
been up and down the railroad from Sherman to
Cypress, Texas. We have lived in Sherman. We have
lived in Kaufman. I've lived in Ennis. I've lived
in Dallas. You've made the rounds, Ann. And
Cypress. And then, of course, here. We've always
called her. And ever since 34, we've always called
her in our home. Home base. Well, this is where we
come back to. And then I have my baby boy has three
degrees. He got his BS degree from Sam Houston. And
then he was principal of a school at Saratoga,
Texas, a year. Where is that? Oh, out here
somewhere. Oh, it's out from,
well, I know how to get there, but it's between
Liberty and back towards Humboldt in there. And
then he went back then to Sam Houston and got his
master degree. And we've just always, Daddy, my
husband, was born in Cook County, Texas. And when
his mother and daddy, he had two brothers, and they
was great big boys, and they decided they'd go back
to Tennessee. And Daddy, of course, was big enough
that he had that Texas fever. He always wanted to
come back to Texas. And of course we've always been
satisfied here because there's so many
advantages here that we didn't have there.
Understand I am a Tennessee fan. I was born in red
there. But I've never regretted coming to Texas.
What do you think some of the advantages of living
here are? A whole lot of the advantages until the
Depression, until this Depression came on, was
work. There's so many more kinds of work here than
there was back then. You mean there was more work
here than there was in Tennessee? Yes, because
there was more, you know, different kinds of work.
And then we was living in Grosbeck when the other
Depression was. Which one are you talking about
now? You know, the depression, it started in 29,
and it really got bad in 30 and 31. And of course, we
had plenty to eat and everything because Daddy was
on a salary. But when everybody around you is out of
work, well, it makes times hard on everybody, just
like it is now. And money was tight. And they talk
about the Depression then. Well, hard times is
worse now than they were then. You really think so?
Yes, sir. I think so. And I'll tell you why. There is
so many more people. The population is greater.
And then there is so many things to do, so many
things that shut down. Way back then, well, there
wasn't so many factories and all these You take
Deer Park, Lake Jackson, and Lake City, and Texas
City, and all those. They wasn't on a boom then. And
now, well, the population is so great. And
everything is so high. Things didn't go out of
proportion in the other depression, but it is in
this one. You see what makes it. Now, I am on. a
railroad retirement i draw a check and i you can go
in a grocery store and something's jumped way up
this week well i get my check i don't get any
increase in my salary it's the same amount it's
just still the same amount but i have got to try to
meet that high price and i can't do it I cannot do it.
That's a problem for everybody. Everybody.
That's it. The
claim is now there's just no money. The people's
got no money. And what little they have got,
they've had to spend it because everything was so
high. Do you remember anything? Any specific
incident that was really tough on you during the
Depression that you had to deal with, say, about a
thing being so tight or whatever? Any specific
thing that you can think of that was really bad?
Well, I can tell you one thing, if this would be
interesting. My husband worked for the railroad,
and he worked 15 men. And in those days, the company
furnished your house and had some little houses in
the yard for these men. And he had to figure out that
15 men that they worked three days a week. Of
course, Daddy drew his salary just the same. But
these men and one man had a wife and 11 children. 11
kids? 11 kids on three days a week. Talk about a
thing being tied. And every morning, I'd fix up a
big pan of beans, some kind of dried beans, a big pan
of meal, and a great big chunk of side meat. Then
meat didn't come wrapped up in little squares like
it did now. It was just the whole side of a hog. And
I'd send one of my boys out to her house in the yard. I
done that for over a year. to keep from them
children from going hungry. And that's the way
they lived. That's a perfect example of what I
wanted. Yeah. And now I look at tuition.
When we took this grandson that I am educating, we
took him, I brought him from the hospital in a
bassinet. You're talking about John? What are you
talking about? And then when Karen was five years
old, I took her. Okay, just a second. Let me stop you
here. Why don't you back up? I mean, I know who
you're talking about, obviously, but go ahead and
say who you're talking about for the tape. Say who
you're talking about. I'm talking about my
grandchildren, my two of my grandchildren. Well,
we raised both of them. And if I live till the ninth
day of May, John will graduate from A&M. Karen has
got one more year in high school. It has been hard
since the time she's got like the hell. But I am a
great believer in the Lord. I believe if you live
right and do right, God's going to take care of you.
It may be in a mysterious way, but I think that he's
going to take care of you. There has been times
since Daddy died that I'd think, well, how in the
world am I going to do? And about the time when I
would start to worry, which I shouldn't worry,
because it's a sin to worry about something that's
beyond your control. I'd get a check from some of my
children. Really? And then that'd solve your
problem, right? And that solves it. I have never
been hungry for the want of something to eat. I've
always had a way to get about. I've had a good place
to stay. John and Karen's always had plenty of
clothes to wear. And a way to get about. They've
never been hungry. And then I don't know whether
we've had hard times or not. Just depending on what
you consider hard times, I guess. Well, it's been
hard. But God didn't promise me no bed of roses.
Yeah, that's true. No, that's right. That's the
way it is. But I can tell you what. If you look about,
you'll always find somebody that's in a worse
shape than you are, financially, health, or
anything. I have been sick a lot. The 16th of June, I
will be 83 years old. That's pretty old. And I can
get about. I get out here in my yard. I do every lick
of work. I don't run over nothing. I don't keep
house anymore like I used to. But people get in and
out. I sing a lot sometimes. And sometimes I get
ashamed of myself that I think, well, Why do I want
to complain? I've got everything that God has
promised to give me. And you see children, there's
children in this town that's hungry. And another
thing, that in the last 20 years, there's been so
much crying, so much going on. When I grew up, Oh,
me. If you heard of a killing, the neighbors
gathered at one another's house, and that was
something terrible. And now you pick up the
newspaper, and this one killed that one, and that
one, and you lay the paper down and don't think
nothing about it. And if there was any dope or
anything like that, I never heard of it.
Compared to now when it's a typical thing. When
it's just a typical thing now that... Oh, I think
they're on dope. They must be on dope, just as
unconcerned if I'd walk in my kitchen and take a
drink of water. Why don't you tell us some of the
things maybe about, I like what you're talking
about now, how things maybe have changed since the
time you were a teenager. of them to now. Oh, my
gracious. Just a few things you can think of, maybe
even a way, you know. Well, starting out, what was
Hearn like when you first came here? What? What was
Hearn like when you first came here? Well, my baby
girl is 42 years old, and she graduated in Hearn.
And she thinks it is terrible the way the teenagers
do now and the way she done. They didn't get in no car
and ride and all over town. And people, everybody,
we had a car. Of course, gas wasn't high. How high
was it? Well, the best I remember is about 18 or 20
cents a gallon. And that wasn't high for that time?
Oh, no.
And the first automobile that we bought
was 19 and 15,
I guess. And we give $540 for it. $540 for a car? For a
car, Ford. Was it a real nice car? Yes, certainly
was nice. $540 compared to now, $4,000. What there
are now, yeah. And you could buy a set of furniture.
a bedroom suit for $50. Goodness. And when is this
now? What year are you talking about now? Well,
now, with the furniture, oh, I expect it was about
19.
Well, 19 and 23, I bought a bedroom suit. I got a
dresser. They didn't have Chester drawers then.
They called them washstands. And a bed and a
mattress and a rocking chair for $54. And I guess
I'd grown them maybe then. Maybe I thought that was
too high. Compared to what it is now. Yeah. Well,
you see, what we got then, when we came to Texas,
Daddy got 65 a month we had more money then than we
did when he retired in 63 and he was making over 400
and they kept up our house we didn't have any
expenses on our utilities and telephone bill yeah
i mean you had more money back yes sir we did we could
i have seen the time when we would buy our groceries
to last a month. And it would be about $25. For the
whole month? Yes, sir. Maybe we'd have to buy bread
or something, or maybe milk, some little item. And
now you can't get by $25 a week. I can go to the
grocery store now and just a few items and be $10 or
$12 and come out swinging the sack. And put it in
your glove compartment almost. Yes, that's
right. Well, how has Hearn changed from the time
you came here? Well, the biggest change in Hearn is
the morality. The what? Morality. People has lost
their honesty and morality. You mean at the heck
when you were here? Yes, sir. When in the
happenings of today, if it had happened back,
well, I'll say back in 30,
people would have thought it was something
terrible. You mean like he's killing some things?
Yes. And now it's killings and stealings and
robbery.
People don't think. If anything back then had
happened like that it happens now, why, the
families, nobody wouldn't have seen them for a
year, for they'd have felt so disgraced. And now,
why, they just laugh about it and go on. Can you
remember any of the older buildings or structures
that were around then that are gone now? You know,
some of the, maybe a grocery store or something
like this? Oh, my goodness, yes. I think this would
be kind of interesting.
Well, again, that's the post office. The post
office used to be on the corner of, that's 4th
Street, isn't it, that runs across the track?
Well, right there where Gibson was, that's where
old post office used to be. Really? only that was an
old shackled building like and then they built a
new post office and then on down from the post
office there on the corner from the post office
coming back towards the Pamela's sister back
towards his office there was a grocery store there
on the corner Italian had it I've done even forgot
his name And then there was a shoe shop then, right
next to that grocery store. And then across where
the First State Bank is, there was about two doors
up, there was the grocery store. All of that is
gone. That's gone completely now. And where that
Western Auto is, there used to be a coffee shop
there. And let me see. Where was the? What used to
be? Always nothing hardly that where things is
now. There's something else. Now the main cafe.
That's been main cafe. A long time in the city cafe.
Course the main. Well, it hadn't changed hands too
much, but the city cafe has been run by Pammises
ever since, Lord, I don't know hardly what year.
But it's been a long, long time. It's been in their
family. Of course, Helen Pammis, her husband, Mr.
Tom, they was the last ones that had it. Bill
Pammers, his mother and daddy had the City Cafe
first. Then his daddy died, and then she kept it on a
while, and then Mr. Tom and Helen took it. I'm going
to try to apply this to Brian, too, because
actually we're supposed to sort of connect it with
Brian if we can. Say back, I don't know, say back in a
30s or 40s or something like this did you uh do you
know very much about brian or did you go to brian
very often do you know oh yes we used to go to brian a
lot do you remember anything about it how it's
changed oh my goodness yes brian has changed they
used to that there was a uh just woods between brian
until you got the college station i mean just woods
no no no there wasn't nothing there was nothing but
just just Well, I think there was maybe one or two
houses set way back or something, and it was five
miles between the space. And now you just drive
along and you see College Station, City Limits
College Station. All that new building over on
that side where Sears begins, and there, all
that's been put up there. And Montgomery and Ward
used to have a store I don't remember what street it
was now. And it burnt. And they built. Do you
remember when this was? No, I don't remember what
year it was. That's my trouble. I can't remember
the years. I used to could remember the year of
anything, but now I have to go to my record to even
see when my kids was born. Well, do you remember
anything in Bryan that used to be there and still
is? You know, something that was around, say, in
about the 30s and 40s and still maybe been
remodeled or something now. I don't know where it
would be down unless it'd be something downtown.
And A&M College used to just be agriculture and
engineering, mechanical engineering. And the
railroad, there used to be trains, of course. We
had trains then. And they would stop. at A&M at the
depot there, and A&M boys would get on there. And I
can go, I believe I can now go to the old part of the
college. Where is it? I don't guess I even know
where it is. Well, the old, I don't know, I have
never asked John. I wonder if they still have
classes there or anything. Like, you know where
the railroad track runs, don't you? Yeah. Well,
over on this side, you could see Kyle Field out from
there. And here then, and the agriculture part was
over here. Is it still that way, still across the
track? Yeah, yeah. I know what you're talking
about, out by the veterinary medicine. Well, what
now is the College of Veterinary Medicine? Yeah.
Well, it's still across the track, though, huh?
Well, that was very small. outfit but that was
separate from over here. How large was A&M back
during those times? Oh my goodness. Did you have
any idea how many people around or anything? I just
I wish that I could see Milton McNair his boys went
there and of course now they are their
granddaddies now they graduated from there but I
just I'd be afraid to say but what did it what did it
look like then what did they uh structure and the
buildings and things looked like that. Well,
there were concrete buildings over on this side
and some of them on that side. And those buildings
are still there. And they were gray, kind of rusty
looking, but everybody was proud of A&M. And then
the way, I think so many times, Sunday evening when
we carried John, It was right funny. There were so
few cars, they were just beginning to come in, the
boys and girls coming in from the spring break. And
then there were all the dormitories and
everything in the world, just one building after
another, and then still a building. I just just go
ahead and keep talking that's right i'm just
trying to it will be a and m someday and it won't be
long it'll be one of the biggest colleges there is
yeah i think i heard somewhere it was one about the
second or third largest growth had been made well
it it will be because the way it's a growing and then
you see any field you want to get into you can get
into it at a m you don't have to go a little bit here
and run all kind of And then I believe in less than
five years' time, premed and law anyway, and
science, that you can go ahead and finish there.
You think they'll have a law and a medical school
there? Yeah, I sure do. They'll have medicine
before they wear a law, I believe. I don't know. But
that's just my guess about it. You were talking
about the connection you and your husband and
family and things they've had with the railroad.
Do you remember anything at, did you ever have
anything with the Milliken Railroad? With what?
With the railroad and activity down around
Milliken? No. They had, there'd been lots of
wrecks, bad wrecks, but they had one terrible
wreck at Cypress one time. uh train got off the
track and uh they uh let me see what was it i don't
know some kind of chemical and that caught a fire
and one of the engineers burnt to death really was
that the uh during these times say again about the
30s or maybe even 20 years or so was that the main way
of traveling by train especially long distance
traveling even if you took if you had You see,
anybody that worked for the railroad, we rode
passes. You mean free? Yeah. They're families.
We'd have a family pass. And then, of course, Daddy
always had a separate pass because he'd be called
to go somewhere, and he had to have that pass right
then. And we'd ride trains. We didn't go anywhere
in a car, and we've always had a car. But we'd be
foolish to go in a car when there we had a pass to go
from here to. florida or tennessee or anywhere we
wanted to go there's very many people people road
trains well there's very many people have cars
though no no why well one thing i think was train
service people say anywhere they wanted to go and
when cars
Well, it was built kind of like a burgee-like and it
had... Like a what? Kind of like a burgee. Did you
ever see a burgee? Yeah, I know what you're talking
about. It had a top like that and that top would let
back. And the report that... I was living in
Tennessee. I was just a girl. That was about...
I expect that was...
Let's see.
I expect that was about 1900. And then notified
everywhere. And wasn't too many people had
telephones. Now, my daddy had a farm. He raised
stock. But still, there was houses all about. And
right close to us was a little post office and a
country store. And they called that this car was
coming out of Nashville. Tennessee, which was 50
miles from us, and for everybody to go out on the
pike. They didn't call it highways then. And that
thing, we seen it coming in horses. Everybody
drove out there in buggies, you know, and horses
began to rare up and jump and afraid of that thing.
It was just a splutton. You never heard such racket
as it was making. And it had small tires and, uh, it
had wire wheels wire yeah they were wire you know
was this a model t or what kind of car was this well it
was a forward i don't know what you called it i guess
it would have been a model t and when the first
starters on forward cars why we what this little
town we lived it was uh 19 and 23. and we bought a
brand new model t and it had a self starter you
didn't have to crank it and we bought